---
description: Dashboards YAML reference
---

# Dashboards YAML reference

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Available from '@site/src/components/Available';
import VideoTutorial from '@site/src/components/VideoTutorial';

This page describes the YAML syntax used to define dashboards in Semaphore.

## Overview

A dashboard in an interface containing widgets. Widgets can give you an overview of events and operations that happen inyour Semaphore organization.

More specifically, widgets are used for viewing activity of pipelines and workflows. You can use filters to modify the views.

Each dashboard is associated with an organization. Therefore, in order to view a specific dashboard, you should be connected to the organization to which it belongs.

## apiVersion {#apiVersion}

The `apiVersion` property specifies the API version of the Dashboard YAML
grammar that will be used in the current document. Different API versions
might have different features.

Here is a list of valid values for the `apiVersion` property: `v1alpha`.

## kind {#kind}

The `kind` property defines the purpose of a YAML file. For a YAML file that
will be used to define a Dashboard, the value of the `kind` property should
be `Dashboard`.

Here is a list of valid values for the `kind` property: `Dashboard`.

## metadata {#metadata}

The `metadata` property defines the metadata of a Dashboard YAML file.
The list of supported properties includes `name`, `title`, `id`,
`create_time`, and `update_time` -- this might change in future versions.

### name {#name-in-metadata}

The `name` property holds the name of a dashboard as it appears in the
URL of the dashboard, and should be unique among an organization's dashboards.

The value of `value` should only contain lowercase letters, dashes, and numbers.

### title {#title-in-metadata}}

The `title` property holds the title of the Dashboard as it appears in 
Semaphore 2.0's UI and can contain Unicode characters.

### id {#id-in-metadata}}

The value of the `id` property is automatically generated and assigned by
Semaphore 2.0 and is unique for each dashboard. It should not be edited.

### create_time {#create-time-in-metadata}

The value of the `create_time` property is automatically generated by Semaphore
2.0 and is in the UNIX epoch format. It holds the time that a dashboard was created.

### update_time {#update-time-in-metadata}

The value of the `update_time` property is automatically generated by Semaphore
2.0 and is in the UNIX epoch format. This value is automatically updated each
time you make a change to a dashboard.

## spec {#spec}

The `spec` property is used to hold the `widgets` property.

## widgets {#widgets-in-spec}

The `widgets` property holds a list of widgets belonging to a given dashboard. 
Each widget defines the actual information that will be displayed on the
Semaphore 2.0 UI by the `name`, `type`, and `filters` properties.

### name {#name-in-widgets}

The `name` property used in each list item of the `widgets` property defines
the name of the `widget` as appears in the UI of Semaphore 2.0.

### type {#type-in-widgets}

The value of `type` defines whether you want your widget to display information
about pipelines or workflows.

Here is a list of valid values for the `type` property: `list_workflows` and `list_pipelines`.

## filters {#filters-in-widgets}

The `filters` property holds a list of items that can help you filter
output to match certain criteria.

### workflow filters 

In order to create a workflows list you need to use `list_workflows` as
the value of the `type` property. A workflows list displays information about
workflows.

The supported properties in `filters` for a workflows list are as follows:

- **project_id** (optional): allows the display of workflows from a given Semaphore
  2.0 project. You can find the project ID of an existing Semaphore 2.0 project
  using the `sem get project <name>` command.

- **branch** (optional): The `branch` property allows you to filter widget
  output by branch name (of the repository) for a Semaphore 2.0
  project. Note that the value of the `branch` property should be an exact
  match and that there is currently no support for regular expressions in the
  `branch` property.

If you are using the `list_worflows` type and you have no filters, the value of
`filters` should be `filters: {}`.

#### Workflows example

``` yaml
apiVersion: v1alpha
kind: Dashboard
metadata:
  name: my-dashboard
  title: My Dashboard
  id: eb0cc2c7-bbc9-41e4-9e3d-2eb622a673fb
  create_time: "1537888191"
  update_time: "1537889560"
spec:
  widgets:
  - name: Master branch from all projects
    type: list_workflows
    filters:
      branch: master
  - name: All projects on the current organization
    type: list_workflows
    filters: {}
```

### pipeline filter

In order to create a pipelines list you will need to use `list_pipelines` as
the value of the `type` property. A pipelines list displays information about
pipelines.

The supported properties in `filters` for a pipelines list are the following:

- **project_id** (required): restricts the widget output to pipelines from a
  single Semaphore 2.0 project. You can find the project ID of an existing
  Semaphore 2.0 project using the `sem get project <name>` command.

- **branch** (optional): The `branch` property allows you to filter widget
  output by specified branch name of a repository for the Semaphore
  2.0 project. Note that the value of the `branch` property should be an exact
  match and that there is currently no support for regular expressions in the
  `branch` property.

- **pipeline_file** (optional): the `pipeline_file` property allows you to
  filter generated output using the filename of a pipeline file that is
  being executed. Please note that the `pipeline_file` value should not be just
  the name of the pipeline file but the full path starting from the root
  directory of the repository. Therefore, the filename of the default
  pipeline is `.semaphore/semaphore.yml`.

#### Pipelines example

``` yaml
apiVersion: v1alpha
kind: Dashboard
metadata:
  name: my-dashboard
  title: My Dashboard
  id: eb0cc2c7-bbc9-41e4-9e3d-2eb622a673fb
  create_time: "1537445699"
  update_time: "1537445713"
spec:
  widgets:
  - name: Pipelines
    type: list_pipelines
    filters:
      project_id: 7384612f-e22f-4710-9f0f-5dcce85ba44b
      branch: demo
      pipeline_file: .semaphore/p1.yml
  - name: docs project pipelines
    type: list_pipelines
    filters:
      project_id: 0dd982e8-32f5-4037-983e-4de01ac7fb1e
```

## See also

