---
description: Notifications YAML reference
---

# Notifications YAML Reference

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Available from '@site/src/components/Available';
import VideoTutorial from '@site/src/components/VideoTutorial';

This page specifies the YAML syntax and rules for notifications on Semaphore.

## Overview

Use this reference in conjuction with the [Semaphore Command Line](./semaphore-cli) to manage and configure notifications on Semaphore.

Notifications can be sent only when a pipeline is finished.

## apiVersion {#apiVersion}

The `apiVersion` property defines the version of the YAML grammar that will be
used in the current YAML file. Different versions might have different
features.

Here is a list of values for the `apiVersion` property: `v1alpha`.

## kind {#kind}

The `kind` property defines the purpose of a YAML file. For a YAML file that
will be used for defining notifications, the value for the `kind` property should
be `Notification`.

Here is a list of values for the `kind` property: `Notification`.

## metadata {#metadata}

The `metadata` property defines the metadata of a Notifications YAML file and
supports the `name`, `id`, `create_time`, and `update_time` properties.

### name {#name-in-metadata}

The value of the `name` property, which is a string, defines the name of a
notification in the context of `metadata`. This is what will appear when you execute
the `sem get notifications` command.

### id {#id-in-metadata}

The value of the `id` property is automatically generated and assigned by
Semaphore 2.0 and is unique to each notification. It should not be edited.

### create_time {#create-time-in-metadata}

The value of the `create_time` property is automatically generated by Semaphore
2.0 and is in the UNIX epoch format. It holds the time that the notification
was created.

### update_time {#update-time-in-metadata}

The value of the `update_time` property is automatically generated by Semaphore
2.0 and is in the UNIX epoch format. It holds the time the notification
was last altered.

## spec {#spec}

The `spec` property holds a list of notification rules.

## rules {#rules-in-spec}

Each `rules` property holds the definition of a notification rule.

In order to define a notification, you will need to have at least one `rules`
item.

## name {#name-in-rules}

In this section, we are going to explain the properties that are used by the
`rules` property.
The value of the `name` property, which is a string, defines the name of each
notification rule.

## filter {#filter-in-rules}

The `filter` property holds the `projects`, `branches`, and `pipelines`
properties. The `projects` property is the only one of these that is mandatory.

The values of `branches`, `projects`, and `pipelines` properties can contain
regular expressions. Regex matches must be wrapped in forward slashes (`/.-/`).
Specifying a branch/project/pipeline name without slashes (`.-`) will execute
a direct equality match.

For a filter to be `true`, each one of its properties should be `true`. If a
property such as `branches` has multiple values, at least one of these values
should be `true` for the entire property to be `true`.

The `filter` property holds the logic of the notification rule.

### projects {#projects-in-filter}

The `projects` property is used for holding a list of Semaphore 2.0
projects that you have selected.

The `projects` property is mandatory.

### branches {#branches-in-filter}

The `branches` property holds a list of strings, which should be the Git
branch names that you have selected.

The `branches` property is optional.

#### pipelines {#pipelines}

The `pipelines` property is used for holding a list of the pipeline filenames
that you have selected.

The `pipelines` property is optional.

## notify {#notify-in-rules}

The `notify` property holds the `slack` and `webhook` properties.

## slack {#slack-in-notify}

The `slack` property holds the `endpoint` and `channels` properties.

### endpoint {#endpoint-in-slack}

The `endpoint` property holds the URL of the Incoming WebHook that will be used.
Incoming WebHooks offer a simple way for posting messages from external sources
into Slack.

You can learn more about defining the value of the `endpoint` property by
reading Slack's [Incoming WebHooks](https://slack.com/apps/A0F7XDUAZ-incoming-webhooks) documentation.

Please note that if a notification does not work as expected, you might want to
begin the debugging process by verifying the Slack WebHook used.

Tip: It is not possible to override and add more Slack channels into the payload. You have to configure one WebHook per channel.

The `endpoint` property is mandatory.

### channels {#channels-in-slack}

The `channels` property holds a list of strings. Each string item is the name
of a Slack channel or the name of a Slack user. Slack channels begin with a `#`
character and Slack users begin with a `@` character.

A notification can send a message to multiple Slack channels and/or multiple
users.

The `channels` property is optional. When the `channels` property is not
defined, all notifications go to the default channel associated with the
Incoming WebHook used.

## webhook {#webhook-in-notify}

The `webhook` property holds the `endpoint`, `action`, `timeout`, and `secret` properties.

### endpoint {#endpoint-in-webhook}

The `endpoint` property holds the URL to which Semaphore will send the notification.

You can learn more about payload of a notification in
our [Webhook Notification](https://docs.semaphoreci.com/essentials/webhook-notifications/) documentation.

The `endpoint` property is mandatory.

### action {#action-in-notify}

The `action` property holds the HTTP method used to send a notification.

The `action` property is optional, and its default value is `POST`.

### timeout {#timeout-in-webhook}

The `timeout` property holds the delivery timeout in ms. This value must be from 1 to 1000 (ms).

The `timeout` property is optional, and its default value is `500`.

### secret {#secret-in-webhook}

The `secret` property holds the name of Semaphore's Secret which will be used to sign the payload.

The `secret` property is optional, and its default value is empty string, in that case payload won't be signed.

## Examples {#examples}

The following YAML code shows an example of a notification as returned by the
`sem get notification [name]` command:

```yaml title="Example"
apiVersion: v1alpha
kind: Notification
metadata:
  name: docs
  id: 2222f08c-93f9-459b-8825-ab8be49c9d19
  create_time: "1542024088"
  update_time: "1542280192"
spec:
  rules:
  - name: Send notifications for docs project
    filter:
      projects:
      - API-docs
    notify:
      slack:
        endpoint: https://hooks.slack.com/services/XXTXXSSA/ABCDDAS/XZYZWAFDFD
        channels:
        - '#devops'
        - '@mtsoukalos'
  - name: On finished pipelines for S1, docs, or .*-api projects
    filter:
      projects:
      - website
      - /.*-api$/
      - docs
      branches:
      - /^feature-.*/
      - master
      pipelines:
      - semaphore.yml
    notify:
      webhook:
        endpoint: https://example.org/postreceiver
        secret: docs-notification-secret
status: {}
```

This notification has two rules, one named `Send notifications for docs project`
and another named `On finished pipelines for S1, docs, or .*-api projects`.

The first rule specifies a single project name: `API-docs`. 
All notifications for this project will go to the `#devops` **channel** 
and to the `mtsoukalos` **user** using the specified Slack Incoming WebHook. 
In this case, the Slack channel associated with the specified Incoming WebHook 
will be ignored.

The second rule is more complex than the first. The values of the `projects`
property specify two project names, `website` and `docs`, as well as
a regular expression (`/.*-api$/`) that will be evaluated against all the
project names of the current organization. For this filter to be `true`, at
least one of the matches must be `true`.

Similarly, the `branches` property has two items. The first one is a regular
expression that matches all branches that begin with the `feature` string
and the second is an exact match to the `master` branch.

Next, specify in the `pipelines` filter that you are only interested
in the main pipeline, which always begins with the `semaphore.yml` file.

Once these three filters are evaluated to be `true`, the rule will send a
notification to the `https://example.org/postreceiver` URL.

Please note that the `status` property at the end is not currently in use.

You can find out how to create new notifications by visiting our
[Slack Notification](https://docs.semaphoreci.com/essentials/slack-notifications/),
[Webhook Notification](https://docs.semaphoreci.com/essentials/webhook-notifications/),
and [sem command line tool](https://docs.semaphoreci.com/reference/sem-command-line-tool/)
reference documentation.

## See Also

- [sem command line tool Reference](https://docs.semaphoreci.com/reference/sem-command-line-tool/)
- [Slack Notifications](https://docs.semaphoreci.com/essentials/slack-notifications/)
- [Webhook Notifications](https://docs.semaphoreci.com/essentials/webhook-notifications/)
