# Documentation Work Group - Meeting Notes

## 22-July-2024

### Attendees

- @TomFern 
- @AleksandarCole
- @mateuscap
- @diegoguerrad
- @tbogosavljevic 

### Agenda
- Open API plogin shipped but broke the dev instance @hamir-suspect working on a fix. Need to figure out how to have better testing/checks.
- Tech. support team joined the work goroup and will help with the review and other `help-wanted` tasks.
- We have a lot of new pages in queue for initial review - @TomFern, @AleksandarCole and @darkofabijan to meet this week and clean up the queue.

## 08-July-2024

### Attendees

- @darkofabijan
- @TomFern 
- @AleksandarCole

### Agenda
- @TomFern and @darko to review new pages on Wednesday
- @AleksandarCole and @TomFern to propose list of pages by EOW
- Support team will join the workgroup in Q3
- @TomFern to review https://github.com/semaphoreci/semaphore/discussions/66
- @TomFern continuing to work on new pages
- @AleksandarCole to push https://github.com/semaphoreci/semaphore/issues/54 with Amir for Wednesday

## 02-July-2024

### Attendees

- @TomFern 
- @AleksandarCole

### Agenda
- [x] Review the state of the `help-wanted board`
  - 0 contributions
  - @AleksandarCole to figure out next steps with internal team
- @TomFern to review https://github.com/semaphoreci/semaphore/discussions/66
- @TomFern continuing to work on new pages

## 24-June-2024

### Attendees

- @darkofabijan 
- @AleksandarCole

### Agenda

- [x] Review the state of the `help-wanted board`
  - Review done, support team to get more involved this week
  - Multiple RFDs planned, API v2 should be one of them
- No further progress on docs, Tommy is offline this week  

## 18-June-2024

### Attendees

- @darkofabijan 
- @AleksandarCole

### Agenda

- [x] Licence for the docs
  - Apache 2.0 licence added 
- [x] Review the state of the `help-wanted board`
  - Review done, Semaphore team briefed.

## 11-June-2024

### Attendees

- @darkofabijan 
- @TomFern 
- @AleksandarCole

### Agenda

- [x] Review the `help wanted` board
  - All looks good
  - @AleksandarCole to brief Semaphore team and look for contributors
- [x] Decide on making the repo public
  - Repo is public ðŸŽ‰
  - @AleksandarCole to include `Apache 2.0` licence for docs this week.
- [x] "Jobs to be done" approach
  - We need a new category "Goals that I want to achieve"
  - Should be added after we finish all "Using Semaphore"
  - Example would be "I want to orchestrate a deployment" referencing feature pages like Promotions, Deployment Targets, Tasks, Pipeline Queues etc.
- [x] New pages content review
  - Will be done by Darko and Tommy by Thursday
