
# How to use Docusaurus versioning

We use [versioning] on Docusaurus to maintain the Cloud, CE and EE editions of Semaphore. Each version consists of a different set of pages and sidebars as the features and capabilities change.

This page describes how to create a new version or release.

## Overview

We handle docs in two ways:

- Cloud: the cloud edition is unversioned. The docs are located on `docs/`
- Community Edition: the open-source edition is versined. The docs are located on `versioned_docs/version-CE-*/`
- Enterprise Edition: the licensed on-premise is also versined. The docs are located on `versioned_docs/version-EE-*/`


## Step 1: Copy versioned docs and sidebars

Create a copy of the versioned docs and sidebars to edit in the next step.

For example, to create `1.0.1` we copy the latest release like this:

```shell
cp -r versioned_docs/version-CE-1.0.0 versioned_docs/version-CE-1.0.1
cp versioned_sidebars/version-CE-1.0.0-sidebars.json versioned_sidebars/version-CE-1.0.1-sidebars.json
```

In this example `CE-1.0.1` is the ID of your new version. You will need that in step 3 and 4.

## Step 2: Edit your docs

In the newly-created docs and sidebars. You can create new pages, add notices of deprecation, update the changelog, etc.

Tip: Use relative paths to keep versions separated.

## Step 3: Edit versions.json

Add the new version to `versions.json`. Add the newer version ID at the top.

```json
[
  "CE-1.0.1",
  "CE-1.0.0"
]
```

## Step 4: Edit docusaurus.config.json

Go to the `presets` section in the page and add an entry for the new version. 

For example, before adding the new version, the section may look like this:

```js
    lastVersion: 'current',
    versions: {
    current: {
        label: 'Semaphore Cloud',
        path: '',
        banner: "none"
    },
    "CE-1.0.0": {
        label: 'Community Edition 1.0.0',
        path: 'CE-1.0.0',
        banner: "none"
    }
    },
```

To add a new version: 
- add a key to the dictionary with the ID of the new version
- remove the `banner` line in all but the most recent version for Semaphore edition, the banner is used to warn the user that they are browsing an older release

After adding the new version, the config looks like this:

```js
    lastVersion: 'current',
    versions: {
    current: {
        label: 'Semaphore Cloud',
        path: '',
        banner: "none"
    },
    "CE-1.0.1": {
        label: 'Community Edition 1.0.1',
        path: 'CE-1.0.1',
        banner: "none"
    },
    "CE-1.0.0": {
        label: 'Community Edition 1.0.0',
        path: 'CE-1.0.0',
    }
    },
```

## Step 5: Test your build

Run the following commands to test your build:

```shell
npm run lint
npm run build
npm run serve
```

Open a browser and check that the drowpdown works and the new version is working.

## How to remove versions

To remove old versions, follow these steps:

- Delete the folder in `versioned_docs`
- Delete the sidebar in `veersioned_sidebars`
- Remove the entry on `versions.json`
- Remove the entry on `docusaurus.config.json`

## How to handle unavailable features

We should make it clear when a feature is not available in one Semaphore edition.

There are two options to deal with unavailable versions:

1. Delete the content: delete the content from the version
2. Mark it as unavailable: keep the title or subheader but clearly mark it as unavailable. Add links to other editions where the feature is available

As a general rule, we shold make it clear when a feature is unavailable, especially for very prominent features such as Promotions, RBAC, or other enterprise-grade features.

### How to manage pages missing in editions

For features that have a whole page dedicated, e.g. Promotions, do the following:

1. Add `displayed_sidebar: <sidebarID>` to the frontmatter of the page. This will prevent the sidebar from disappearing. Refer to `sidebars.js` to get the value of the `sidebarID`.

    For example:

    ```md
    ---
    description: Connect pipelines to create workflows
    displayed_sidebar: usingSemaphoreSidebar
    ---
    ```

2. Add the `FeatureNotAvailable` Component. This will add a banner on the top of the page that marks the feature as not available and link to other editions.

    ```md
    import FeatureNotAvailable from '@site/src/components/FeatureNotAvailable';
    <FeatureNotAvailable/>
    ```

3. Remove all other contents in the page
4. Remove the entry from the sidebar:
   - For explicit items in sidebar file, remove the in the corresponding file in the `versioned_sidebars` folder
   - For autogenerated docs, add `sidebar_class_name: hidden` into the doc frontmatter


